Fair (#41)
S-ENDA/DMH: documentation/struct_metadata.md

Both discovery metadata and use metadata can be embedded in the files produced for a dataset through utilisation of self-explaining file formats. If properly done by the data producer, publication and preservation of data through services is simplified and can be automated.

> In order to support the FAIR principles, the following guidelines must apply to metadata:

Reviewer: What about a hybrid version? In my suggestion I added a link because I think it is good to make it clear why metadata should be available if the data is not and because the sentence is the same as the original on the webpage

- Metadata must be self-explanatory and not need additional information. 
- Metadata must document the quality of data. 
- Data owners must manage the metadata only in one place. 
- It must be clear to everyone who is the data owner and responsible for updating metadata. 
- Geographical data and products with metadata that are not subject to grading regimes shall
could be used in portals where the data is relevant.
- Metadata is entered with English and Norwegian as standard

(This is taken from FAIR-veileder by geonorge, but no similar for datasets...)

> To follow FAIR, metadata should: 
> - Clearly and explicitly include the identifier of the data they describe. 
> - Be accessible, even when the data are no longer available. 
> - Be registered or indexed in a searchable resource. 
> - Use a vocabulary that follows FAIR principles. 
> 
> (This is taken from previous text and FAIR webpage. I prefer this one.)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To follow FAIR, metadata should: 
- Include the data identifier clearly and explicitly.
- Be registered or indexed in a searchable resource.
- Be self-explanatory to optimize searchability. 
- Clearly identify who owns the data. 
- Use a vocabulary that follows FAIR principles. 
- [Be accessible even when the data are no longer available]( https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/a2-metadata-accessible-even-data-no-longer-available/). 
```
